README.md, before:

# 🚀Efficient-VLA-Survey
> This is a curated list of "A survey on Efficient Vision-Language Action Model" research.


## Efficient VLAs

### Efficient Architecture

#### Vision Encoder
- CogVLA: Cognition-Aligned Vision-Language-Action Model via Instruction-Driven Routing & Sparsification. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21046)]
#### Language Model
- SmolVLA: A vision-language-action model for affordable and efficient robotics. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01844)]
- RoboMamba: Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model for Robotic Reasoning and Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04339)]
- VLA-Adapter: An Effective Paradigm for Tiny-Scale Vision-Language-Action Model. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09372)]
- F1: A Vision-Language-Action Model Bridging Understanding and Generation to Actions. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06951)]
#### Action Decoder
- RoboMamba: Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model for Robotic Reasoning and Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04339)]
- SP-VLA: A Joint Model Scheduling and Token Pruning Approach for VLA Model Acceleration. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.12723)]
- SpecPrune-VLA: Accelerating Vision-Language-Action Models via Action-Aware Self-Speculative Pruning. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.05614)]
### Efficient Inference

#### Layer Skipping
- EfficientVLA: Training-Free Acceleration and Compression for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10100)]
- MoLe-VLA: Dynamic Layer-skipping Vision Language Action Model via Mixture-of-Layers for Efficient Robot Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20384)]
- FLOWER: Democratizing Generalist Robot Policies with Efficient Vision-Language-Action Flow Policies. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04996)]
#### Knowledge Distillation
- MoLe-VLA: Dynamic Layer-skipping Vision Language Action Model via Mixture-of-Layers for Efficient Robot Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20384)]
#### Efficient Use of Tokens

##### Token Compression
- FAST: Efficient Action Tokenization for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09747)]
- F1: A Vision-Language-Action Model Bridging Understanding and Generation to Actions. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06951)]
- VQ-VLA: Improving Vision-Language-Action Models via Scaling Vector-Quantized Action Tokenizers. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.01016)]
##### Token Pruning
- SP-VLA: A Joint Model Scheduling and Token Pruning Approach for VLA Model Acceleration. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.12723)]
- EfficientVLA: Training-Free Acceleration and Compression for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10100)]
- SQAP-VLA: A Synergistic Quantization-Aware Pruning Framework for High-Performance Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09090)]
- SpecPrune-VLA: Accelerating Vision-Language-Action Models via Action-Aware Self-Speculative Pruning. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.05614)]
- CogVLA: Cognition-Aligned Vision-Language-Action Model via Instruction-Driven Routing & Sparsification. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21046)]
##### Token Caching
- VLA-Cache: Towards Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model via Adaptive Token Caching in Robotic Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02175)]
- EfficientVLA: Training-Free Acceleration and Compression for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10100)]
#### Discrete Action Generation
- Accelerating vision-language-action model integrated with action chunking via parallel decoding. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02310)]
- CEED-VLA: Consistency Vision-Language-Action Model with Early-Exit Decoding. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13725)]
- Spec-VLA: Speculative Decoding for Vision-Language-Action Models with Relaxed Acceptance. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.22424)]
- VQ-VLA: Improving Vision-Language-Action Models via Scaling Vector-Quantized Action Tokenizers. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.01016)]
- CogVLA: Cognition-Aligned Vision-Language-Action Model via Instruction-Driven Routing & Sparsification. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21046)]
- Discrete Diffusion VLA: Bringing Discrete Diffusion to Action Decoding in Vision-Language-Action Policies. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.20072)]
#### Continuous Action Generation
- SmolVLA: A vision-language-action model for affordable and efficient robotics. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01844)]

### Training

#### Efficient Training
- TinyVLA: Towards Fast, Data-Efficient Vision-Language-Action Models for Robotic Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12514)]
- SimpleVLA-RL: Scaling VLA Training via Reinforcement Learning. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09674)]
- Long-VLA: Unleashing Long-Horizon Capability of Vision Language Action Model for Robot Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.19958)]
#### Efficient Finetuning
- TinyVLA: Towards Fast, Data-Efficient Vision-Language-Action Models for Robotic Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12514)]
- RoboMamba: Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model for Robotic Reasoning and Manipulation.<ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04339)]
- VQ-VLA: Improving Vision-Language-Action Models via Scaling Vector-Quantized Action Tokenizers. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.01016)]
- VLA-Adapter: An Effective Paradigm for Tiny-Scale Vision-Language-Action Model. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09372)]
- FLOWER: Democratizing Generalist Robot Policies with Efficient Vision-Language-Action Flow Policies. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04996)]
- Balancing Signal and Variance: Adaptive Offline RL Post-Training for VLA Flow Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04063)]
- Align-Then-stEer: Adapting the Vision-Language Action Models through Unified Latent Guidance. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.02055)]

### Data and Benchmarks

#### Pre-Training Data

#### Finetuning Data

#### Benchmarks

### Applications
- RoboChemist: Long-Horizon and Safety-Compliant Robotic Chemical Experimentation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.08820)]

Commit message:

Add FlowVLA paper to Efficient Training section

README.md, after:

# 🚀Efficient-VLA-Survey
> This is a curated list of "A survey on Efficient Vision-Language Action Model" research.


## Efficient VLAs

### Efficient Architecture

#### Vision Encoder
- CogVLA: Cognition-Aligned Vision-Language-Action Model via Instruction-Driven Routing & Sparsification. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21046)]
#### Language Model
- SmolVLA: A vision-language-action model for affordable and efficient robotics. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01844)]
- RoboMamba: Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model for Robotic Reasoning and Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04339)]
- VLA-Adapter: An Effective Paradigm for Tiny-Scale Vision-Language-Action Model. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09372)]
- F1: A Vision-Language-Action Model Bridging Understanding and Generation to Actions. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06951)]
#### Action Decoder
- RoboMamba: Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model for Robotic Reasoning and Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04339)]
- SP-VLA: A Joint Model Scheduling and Token Pruning Approach for VLA Model Acceleration. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.12723)]
- SpecPrune-VLA: Accelerating Vision-Language-Action Models via Action-Aware Self-Speculative Pruning. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.05614)]
### Efficient Inference

#### Layer Skipping
- EfficientVLA: Training-Free Acceleration and Compression for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10100)]
- MoLe-VLA: Dynamic Layer-skipping Vision Language Action Model via Mixture-of-Layers for Efficient Robot Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20384)]
- FLOWER: Democratizing Generalist Robot Policies with Efficient Vision-Language-Action Flow Policies. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04996)]
#### Knowledge Distillation
- MoLe-VLA: Dynamic Layer-skipping Vision Language Action Model via Mixture-of-Layers for Efficient Robot Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20384)]
#### Efficient Use of Tokens

##### Token Compression
- FAST: Efficient Action Tokenization for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09747)]
- F1: A Vision-Language-Action Model Bridging Understanding and Generation to Actions. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06951)]
- VQ-VLA: Improving Vision-Language-Action Models via Scaling Vector-Quantized Action Tokenizers. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.01016)]
##### Token Pruning
- SP-VLA: A Joint Model Scheduling and Token Pruning Approach for VLA Model Acceleration. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.12723)]
- EfficientVLA: Training-Free Acceleration and Compression for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10100)]
- SQAP-VLA: A Synergistic Quantization-Aware Pruning Framework for High-Performance Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09090)]
- SpecPrune-VLA: Accelerating Vision-Language-Action Models via Action-Aware Self-Speculative Pruning. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.05614)]
- CogVLA: Cognition-Aligned Vision-Language-Action Model via Instruction-Driven Routing & Sparsification. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21046)]
##### Token Caching
- VLA-Cache: Towards Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model via Adaptive Token Caching in Robotic Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02175)]
- EfficientVLA: Training-Free Acceleration and Compression for Vision-Language-Action Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10100)]
#### Discrete Action Generation
- Accelerating vision-language-action model integrated with action chunking via parallel decoding. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02310)]
- CEED-VLA: Consistency Vision-Language-Action Model with Early-Exit Decoding. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13725)]
- Spec-VLA: Speculative Decoding for Vision-Language-Action Models with Relaxed Acceptance. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.22424)]
- VQ-VLA: Improving Vision-Language-Action Models via Scaling Vector-Quantized Action Tokenizers. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.01016)]
- CogVLA: Cognition-Aligned Vision-Language-Action Model via Instruction-Driven Routing & Sparsification. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21046)]
- Discrete Diffusion VLA: Bringing Discrete Diffusion to Action Decoding in Vision-Language-Action Policies. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.20072)]
#### Continuous Action Generation
- SmolVLA: A vision-language-action model for affordable and efficient robotics. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01844)]

### Training

#### Efficient Training
- TinyVLA: Towards Fast, Data-Efficient Vision-Language-Action Models for Robotic Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12514)]
- SimpleVLA-RL: Scaling VLA Training via Reinforcement Learning. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09674)]
- Long-VLA: Unleashing Long-Horizon Capability of Vision Language Action Model for Robot Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.19958)]
- FlowVLA: Thinking in Motion with a Visual Chain of Thought. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.18269)]
#### Efficient Finetuning
- TinyVLA: Towards Fast, Data-Efficient Vision-Language-Action Models for Robotic Manipulation. <ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12514)]
- RoboMamba: Efficient Vision-Language-Action Model for Robotic Reasoning and Manipulation.<ins>arXiv, 2024</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04339)]
- VQ-VLA: Improving Vision-Language-Action Models via Scaling Vector-Quantized Action Tokenizers. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.01016)]
- VLA-Adapter: An Effective Paradigm for Tiny-Scale Vision-Language-Action Model. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09372)]
- FLOWER: Democratizing Generalist Robot Policies with Efficient Vision-Language-Action Flow Policies. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04996)]
- Balancing Signal and Variance: Adaptive Offline RL Post-Training for VLA Flow Models. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04063)]
- Align-Then-stEer: Adapting the Vision-Language Action Models through Unified Latent Guidance. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.02055)]

### Data and Benchmarks

#### Pre-Training Data

#### Finetuning Data

#### Benchmarks

### Applications
- RoboChemist: Long-Horizon and Safety-Compliant Robotic Chemical Experimentation. <ins>arXiv, 2025</ins> [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.08820)]
